The code in this repository utilizes data from the PHANGS-MUSE Nebular catalog and data obtained from the SITELLE spectrograph at the CFHT to directly calculate metallicities in HII regions of nearby galaxies. 


This project has includes additional reduction of the SITELLE data cubes, the extraction of spectra from the SITELLE data cubes, the spectral fitting of the [OII]3727,7319,7330, [NII]5755 and [SIII]6312 features from the MUSE observations (after accounting for stellar background continuum), and the derivation of physical quanties (densities, temperatures and metallicities). 

The `calibration_PSF.ipynb` notebook is used to visually identify point-like sources and create a catalog of objects that overlap in both the MUSE and SITELLE images. The PSF of each SITELLE pointing is also estimated using this notebook. The `montage_reproject.py` script uses the catalog of bright sources to correct the WCS information in each of the SITELLE pointings to match the WCS of the MUSE pointings. The SITELLE cubes are then reprojected into the same spatial and pixel dimensions as the MUSE observations. Spectra from the HII region masks that are developed in [Groves et al. 2023](https://doi.org/10.1093/mnras/stad114) are then used to extract HII region spectra from SITELLE.

In the `emission_line_fitting.py` script, the four auroral lines mentioned above and the [OII]3727 feature are fitted and a flux is obtained from each feature. Each flux is appended to the nebular catalog from [Groves et al. 2023](https://doi.org/10.1093/mnras/stad114). The nebular catalog and the measured line fluxes from this analysis are then used in the `physical_quantities.py` script to directly derive densities, temperatures and abundances of HII regions. In the `strong_calibration.py` script, a number of strong line metallicity perscriptions are used to estimate the metallicities. The `Paper_plots.ipynb` notebook creates all plots that are used in the manuscript as well as other comparisons. 